Add JS v9 migration guide (#12587)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/javascript/common/migration/v8-to-v9.mdx

---
title: Migrate from 8.x to 9.x
sidebar_order: 8900
description: "Learn about migrating from Sentry JavaScript SDK 8.x to 9.x"
notSupported:
  - javascript.capacitor
  - javascript.cordova
  - javascript.electron
---

Version 9 of the Sentry JavaScript SDK primarily introduces API cleanup and version support changes.

> This update contains behavioral changes that will not be caught by type checkers, linters or tests, so we recommend carefully reading through the entire migration guide instead of purely relying on automatic tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This update contains behavioral changes that will not be caught by type checkers, linters, or tests, so we recommend carefully reading through the entire migration guide instead of relying on automatic tooling.
```

Version 9 of the SDK is compatible with Sentry self-hosted versions 24.4.2 or higher (unchanged from v8).
Lower versions may continue to work, but may not support all features.

## Version Support Changes:

Version 9 of the Sentry SDK has new compatibility ranges for runtimes and frameworks.

### General Runtime Support Changes

#### Minimum Compatible ECMAScript Version

All the JavaScript code in the Sentry SDK packages may now contain ECMAScript 2020 features.
This includes features like Nullish Coalescing (`??`), Optional Chaining (`?.`), `String.matchAll()`, Logical Assignment Operators (`&&=`, `||=`, `??=`), and `Promise.allSettled()`.

If you observe failures due to syntax or features listed above, it may indicate that your current runtime does not support ES2020.

> If your runtime does not support ES2020, we recommend transpiling the SDK using Babel or similar tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your runtime does not support ES2020, we recommend transpiling the SDK using Babel or similar tools.
```

<PlatformCategorySection supported={['server']}>

#### Node.js

The minimum supported Node.js version is **18.0.0**, except for ESM-only SDKs (`@sentry/astro`, `@sentry/nuxt`, `@sentry/sveltekit`) which require Node.js version **18.19.1** or higher.

</PlatformCategorySection >

<PlatformCategorySection supported={['browser']}>

#### Browsers

Due to SDK code now including ES2020 features, the minimum supported browser list now looks as follows:

- Chrome 80
- Edge 80
- Safari 14, iOS Safari 14.4
- Firefox 74
- Opera 67
- Samsung Internet 13.0

> If you need to support older browsers, we recommend transpiling your code using SWC, Babel or similar tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to support older browsers, we recommend transpiling your code using SWC, Babel or similar tools.
```

</PlatformCategorySection >

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript.deno"]}>

#### Deno

The minimum supported Deno version is now **2.0.0**.

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript.remix"]}>

### Framework

- Remix version `1.x` is no longer supported

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript.deno"]}>

### Framework

- SvelteKit version 1.x is no longer supported.

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript.ember"]}>

### Framework

- Ember.js version `3.x` and below are no longer supported (minimum supported version is `4.x`).

</PlatformSection>

### TypeScript Version Policy

> In preparation for v2 of the OpenTelemetry SDK, which will raise the minimum required TypeScript version, the minimum required TypeScript version is increased to version `5.0.4`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In preparation for v2 of the OpenTelemetry SDK, the minimum required TypeScript version is increased to version `5.0.4`.
```

Additionally, like the OpenTelemetry SDK, the Sentry JavaScript SDK will follow [DefinitelyType's version support policy](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped#support-window) which has a support time frame of 2 years for any released version of TypeScript.

> Older Typescript versions _may_ continue to be compatible, but no guarantees apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Older TypeScript versions _may_ continue to be compatible, but no guarantees apply.
```

<PlatformCategorySection supported={['server']}>

### Packages

- Prisma version `5.x` and below are no longer supported (minimum supported version is `6.x`).

</PlatformCategorySection >

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript.react"]}>

### Packages

- TanStack Router version `1.63.0` and lower are no longer supported (relevant when using `tanstackRouterBrowserTracingIntegration`).

</PlatformSection>

## Behavior Changes

The changes outlined in this section describe in what way the SDK may behave differently after upgrading.

- Dropping spans in the `beforeSendSpan` hook is no longer possible.
  This means you can no longer return `null` from the `beforeSendSpan` hook.
  This hook is intended to be used to add additional data to spans or remove unwanted attributes (for example for PII stripping).

>   To control which spans are recorded, we recommend configuring [integrations](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/configuration/integrations/) instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To control which spans are recorded, we recommend configuring [integrations](/platforms/javascript/configuration/integrations/) instead.
```

- The `beforeSendSpan` hook now receives the root span as well as the child spans.
  We recommend checking your `beforeSendSpan` to account for this change.

- The `request` property on the `samplingContext` argument passed to the `tracesSampler` and `profilesSampler` options has been removed.
  `samplingContext.normalizedRequest` can be used instead.
  Note that the type of `normalizedRequest` differs from `request`.

- The `startSpan` behavior was changed if you pass a custom `scope`:
  While in v8, the passed scope was set active directly on the passed scope, in v9, the scope is cloned. This behavior change does not apply to `@sentry/node` where the scope was already cloned.
  This change was made to ensure that the span only remains active within the callback and to align behavior between `@sentry/node` and all other SDKs.
  As a result of the change, span hierarchy should be more accurate.

>   However, modifying the scope (e.g. set tags) within the `startSpan` callback behaves a bit differently now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  However, modifying the scope (for example, set tags) within the `startSpan` callback behaves a bit differently now.
```

  ```javascript
  startSpan({ name: "example", scope: customScope }, () => {
    // This tag will only remain within the callback.
    getCurrentScope().setTag("tag-a", "a");

    // Set the tag directly on customScope in addition,
    // if you want to to persist the tag outside of the callback.
    customScope.setTag("tag-a", "a");
  });
  ```

- Passing `undefined` as a `tracesSampleRate` option value will now be treated the same as if the attribute was not defined at all.

>   In previous versions, it was checked whether the `tracesSampleRate` property existed in the SDK options to determine whether to propagate trace data for distributed tracing.

Reviewer: I'm having a little trouble with this 'whether' statement, should there be an 'or' somewhere in here?

  Consequentially, this sometimes caused the SDK to propagate negative sampling decisions when `tracesSampleRate: undefined` was passed.
  This is no longer the case and sampling decisions will be deferred to downstream SDKs for distributed tracing.
  This is more of a bugfix rather than a breaking change, however, depending on the setup of your SDKs, an increase in sampled traces may be observed.

> - If you use the optional `captureConsoleIntegration` and set `attachStackTrace: true` in your `Sentry.init` call, console messages will no longer be marked as unhandled (i.e. `handled: false`) but as handled (i.e. `handled: true`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you use the optional `captureConsoleIntegration` and set `attachStackTrace: true` in your `Sentry.init` call, console messages will no longer be marked as unhandled (`handled: false`) but as handled (`handled: true`).
```

  This behavior was changed because the Next.js Build ID is non-deterministic, causing build artifacts to be non-deterministic, because the release name is injected into client bundles.

- Source maps are now automatically enabled for both client and server builds unless explicitly disabled via `sourcemaps.disable`.
  Client builds use `hidden-source-map` while server builds use `source-map` as their webpack `devtool` setting unless any other value than `false` or `undefined` has been assigned already.

- The `sentry` property on the Next.js config object has officially been discontinued.
  Pass options to `withSentryConfig` directly.

</PlatformSection>

## Package Removals

The `@sentry/utils` package will no longer be published.

The `@sentry/types` package will continue to be published, however, it is deprecated and its API will not be extended.
It will not be published as part of future major versions.

All exports and APIs of `@sentry/utils` and `@sentry/types` (except for the ones that are explicitly called out in this migration guide to be removed) have been moved into the `@sentry/core` package.

## Removed APIs

> The changes outlined in this sections entail APIs that have previously been deprecated are now removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The changes outlined in this section details deprecated APIs that are now removed.
```

  The Sentry metrics beta has ended and the metrics API has been removed from the SDK. Learn more in the Sentry [help center docs](https://sentry.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/26369339769883-Metrics-Beta-Ended-on-October-7th).

- The `transactionContext` property on the `samplingContext` argument passed to the `tracesSampler` and `profilesSampler` options has been removed.
  All object attributes are available in the top-level of `samplingContext`:

  ```javascript {diff}
  Sentry.init({
    // Custom traces sampler
    tracesSampler: samplingContext => {
  -   if (samplingContext.transactionContext.name === '/health-check') {
  +   if (samplingContext.name === '/health-check') {
        return 0;
      } else {
        return 0.5;
      }
    },

    // Custom profiles sampler
    profilesSampler: samplingContext => {
  -   if (samplingContext.transactionContext.name === '/health-check') {
  +   if (samplingContext.name === '/health-check') {
        return 0;
      } else {
        return 0.5;
      }
    },
  })
  ```

- The `enableTracing` option was removed.
  Instead, set `tracesSampleRate: 1` or `tracesSampleRate: 0`.

- The `autoSessionTracking` option was removed.

>   To enable session tracking, ensure that either, in browser environments the `browserSessionIntegration` is added, or in server environments the `httpIntegration` is added. (both are added by default)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To enable session tracking you can add `browserSessionIntegration` to browser environments, or add `httpIntegration` in server environments (both are added by default.)
```

  To disable session tracking, remove the `browserSessionIntegration` in browser environments, or in server environments configure the `httpIntegration` with the `trackIncomingRequestsAsSessions` option set to `false`.
  Additionally, in Node.js environments, a session was automatically created for every node process when `autoSessionTracking` was set to `true`. This behavior has been replaced by the `processSessionIntegration` which is configured by default.

- The `getCurrentHub()`, `Hub` and `getCurrentHubShim()` APIs have been removed. They were on compatibility life support since the release of v8 and have now been fully removed from the SDK.

- The `addOpenTelemetryInstrumentation` method has been removed. Use the `openTelemetryInstrumentations` option in `Sentry.init()` or your custom Sentry Client instead.

  ```js
  import * as Sentry from "@sentry/node";

  // before
  Sentry.addOpenTelemetryInstrumentation(new GenericPoolInstrumentation());

  // after
  Sentry.init({
    openTelemetryInstrumentations: [new GenericPoolInstrumentation()],
  });
  ```

> - The `debugIntegration` has been removed. To log outgoing events, use [Hook Options](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/configuration/options/#hooks) (`beforeSend`, `beforeSendTransaction`, ...).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `debugIntegration` has been removed. To log outgoing events, use [Hook Options](/platforms/javascript/configuration/options/#hooks) (`beforeSend`, `beforeSendTransaction`, ...).
```

> - The `sessionTimingIntegration` has been removed. To capture session durations alongside events, use [Context](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/enriching-events/context/) (`Sentry.setContext()`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `sessionTimingIntegration` has been removed. To capture session durations alongside events, use [Context](/platforms/javascript/enriching-events/context/) (`Sentry.setContext()`).
```

            "unmount",
          ],
        },
      }),
    ],
  });
  ```

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript.remix"]}>

- The `autoInstrumentRemix` option was removed.
  The SDK now always behaves as if the option were set to `true`.

</PlatformSection>

<PlatformSection supported={["javascript.sveltekit"]}>

- The `fetchProxyScriptNonce` option in `sentryHandle()` was removed due to security concerns. If you previously specified this option for your CSP policy, specify a [script hash](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/sveltekit/manual-setup/#configure-csp-for-client-side-fetch-instrumentation) in your CSP config or [disable](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/sveltekit/manual-setup/#disable-client-side-fetch-proxy-script) the injection of the script entirely.

</PlatformSection>

## Build Changes

- The CJS code for the SDK now only contains compatibility statements for CJS/ESM in modules that have default exports:

  ```js
  Object.defineProperty(exports, "__esModule", { value: true });
  ```

  Let us know if this is causing issues in your setup by opening an issue on GitHub.

> - `@sentry/deno` is no longer published on the `deno.land` registry so you'll need to import the SDK from npm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `@sentry/deno` is no longer published on the `deno.land` registry, so you'll need to import the SDK from npm:
```

  ```javascript
  import * as Sentry from "npm:@sentry/deno";

  Sentry.init({
    dsn: "__DSN__",
    // ...
  });
  ```

## Type Changes

> - `Scope` usages now always expect `Scope` instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Scope` usages now always expect `Scope` instances.
```

- The `IntegrationClass` type was removed.
  Instead, use `Integration` or `IntegrationFn`.

- The following exports have been removed without replacement:

  - `getNumberOfUrlSegments`
  - `validSeverityLevels`
  - `makeFifoCache`
  - `arrayify`
  - `flatten`
  - `urlEncode`
  - `getDomElement`
  - `memoBuilder`
  - `extractPathForTransaction`
  - `_browserPerformanceTimeOriginMode`
  - `addTracingHeadersToFetchRequest`
  - `SessionFlusher`

- The following types have been removed without replacement:

  - `Request`
    `RequestEventData`
  - `TransactionNamingScheme`
  - `RequestDataIntegrationOptions`
  - `SessionFlusherLike`
  - `RequestSession`
  - `RequestSessionStatus`

<PlatformCategorySection supported={['server']}>
<PlatformSection notSupported={["javascript.deno", "javascript.bun", "javascript.cloudflare", "javascript.wasm"]}>

### Removals in `@sentry/opentelemetry`

- Removed `getPropagationContextFromSpan` without replacement.

- Removed `generateSpanContextForPropagationContext` without replacement.

</ PlatformSection>
</ PlatformCategorySection >

- `client._prepareEvent()` now requires both `currentScope` and `isolationScope` to be passed as arguments.

> - `client.recordDroppedEvent()` no longer accepts an `event` as third argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `client.recordDroppedEvent()` no longer accepts an `event` as a third argument.
```

>   The event was no longer used for some time, instead you can (optionally) pass a count of dropped events as third argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The event was no longer used for some time, instead you can (optionally) pass a count of dropped events as a third argument.
```

## Version Support Timeline

Version support timelines are stressful for everybody using the SDK, so we won't be defining one.
Instead, we will be applying bug fixes and features to older versions as long as there is demand.

Additionally, we hold ourselves accountable to any security issues, meaning that if any vulnerabilities are found, we will in almost all cases backport them.

> Note, that it is decided on a case-per-case basis, what gets backported or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note, that backporting decisions are made on a case-by-case basis.
```
